In our literacy class,
we learn to take notes.
So today, we're gonna
go deeper into researching
the three types of volcanoes.
What's one reason why
volcanoes are important?
This is their blog.
In the real world,
collaboration is necessary.
So, I wanted this
to be a replica
of what happens
in the real world,
where we have people
who specialize
in different areas
come together
to teach the students
in their discipline.
Great.
♪
The three major parties
involved in this project
are myself,
I'm the literacy coach,
we have Mr.Tulli
who's the science teacher...
-Minerals.
-Minerals, okay.
...and we have the classroom
fourth grade teacher,
Ms. Antoine.
I think it's very important,
so I would write this
in my notes.
And together
we're collaborating
and really guiding the students
in researching
this particular project.
The curriculum is all about
volcanoes in Goma
and how students can track
the activity of the volcano
and also create
evacuation plans
for the people of Goma.
This is the location of
this volcano we're studying.
We Skype on a regular basis
with an outside team,
One Planet,
and the chief executive officer
is George Newman.
It is also right near
the volcano.
We talk on a daily basis,
text each other,
send e-mails, and the purpose
was to help to make sure
that we were on track.
Because of the project,
scientists and other experts
in the field
are in contact with us
on a regular basis.
Turn and talk about what else
you need to learn
about stratovolcano.
We collaborated on
most of the lessons.
We teach the lesson in class.
The vocabulary words.
Composite, strato.
Without soil,
what would be the problem?
-The plants wouldn't grow?
-Okay.
And they research
and they share.
"They are among the most common
types of volcanoes."
After sharing, you can see
every child is, like,
"I found this and I found that,"
you know?
The volcanoes are formed
by the lava.
Very good. Now...
♪
I decided that I want to learn
as much as I possibly could
about computer science,
so I enrolled in several
courses, workshops,
and attended several workshops
with CS4All,
and I just started
to become very fascinated
with programming and coding,
so I wanted to introduce it
to the students
because this is their future.
The project is
a project-based learning
incorporating STEM.
The science teacher
is responsible
for the overall science
of the whole project.
I take a small group
of students
to teach them Scratch...
Make sure you're following
your storyboard.
...the coding part,
and also introducing them
to blogging.
This whole generation,
it was born with a mouse
in their hand
and they're very at ease
with technology,
and it really is the way
of the future,
and I think there's so much
information out there.
Now it's at their fingertips.
I'm working with a partner
named Solyssa
and we're using Scratch
to make a digital story
to help the people in Goma
with the volcano.
We get to get that information,
what we learned in science,
and put it in the computer
and then we made it
all into code.
Two other people of the group,
they're doing
the evacuation plan.
So today, I was doing
It's gonna help lots of people.
-Excellent.
-It's going to be on the blog.
I also heard that
it's going to scientists.
They're gonna read it
and see if it could work.
They're using
a variety of skill sets
and their project,
you know, crosses through
a variety of subject areas,
and they're connecting
all of those
to make meaning
and reach a goal.
Kids are super engaged
because there's this
real-world connection,
and learning is really about
preparing kids
for the real world
and tuning them
in to what's going on,
and I think they were
really excited
because their learning
right now is really connected.
Computer science
is the catalyst
for the whole project,
and the kids are now
really interested
in computer science.
They want to know how to code.
They want to know how to do
other things in technology.
So, this has been
a great experience for them.
Excellent, excellent.
♪